Q.1 what is IAM ?
   Its identity and Access Management
   is a web service that helps you securely control access
   to AWS resources. we use IAM to control who is authenticated (signed in) 
   and authorized (has permissions) to use resources.

Q.2 who are fedrated user in aws ?
   Federated users are managed in an external directory
   and are granted temporary access AWS services/resources ,api
Q.2.a. Security Token Service .(15min to 36 hrs)
      STS as a web service that enables you to request temprory,limited privilege credentials
      for aws IAM users or users you authenticate(fedrated user)
Q.2.b. Assume role 
      Typically, you use AssumeRole within your account or for cross-account access.
      a set of temprory security credintial that you can use to acess aws resources.
      it consist access key id , a secret access key, and security token.
Q.2 what is IAM Role ?
    An IAM role is an IAM identity that you can create in your account that has
    specific permissions.
    An IAM role is similar to an IAM user, in that it is an AWS identity 
    with permission policies  that determine what the identity can and cannot do in AWS.
    we use  role to communicate between to services.

Q. users in aws
   1.First-time access only : root user
   2. IAM Users
   3. Federating existing users - You have non-AWS users in your identity and authorization system, and they need access to your AWS resources.
Q. policies and permission in iam 
   You manage access in AWS by creating policies and attaching them
   to IAM identities (users, groups of users, or roles) or AWS resources. 
Q.policy types ?
   1) Identity-based policies 
       1.a. Managed policies - we can attached multiple user,group and role .
         1.a.1. Aws managed policies 
         1.a.2. Customer managed policies 
       1.b. Inline policies - it maintain strict one-to-one relationship between a policy and an identity.
             we can convert inline policies to manage policies .
   2) Resource-based policies
   3) Permission Boundaries (managed policies)
   4) Organization SCPs (service control policies) :- to define maximum permission for account member of an organization.
   5) Access control lists (ACLs) - acl to control which principle in other acc can acess the resource to which the acl is attached .
        (similar resource-based poicies)cross account permission
   6) Session policies - in cli to assume role or fedrated user .but do not grant permission its for session.

Q. Choosing between managed policies and inline policies ?
-  reusability , central change management , versioning and rolling back ,Delegating permissions management,Automatic updates for AWS managed policies.

Q. what is ABAC for AWS
   Attribute-based access control (ABAC) is an authorization strategy that defines permissions based on attributes. In AWS, these attributes are called tags.
.Q cross-account ?
  You want to share access to certain AWS resources with users under other AWS accounts.
Q. IAM user groups ?
  An IAM user group is a collection of IAM users. You can use user groups to specify permissions for a collection of users,
  which can make those permissions easier to manage for those users. 
Q.You can't create a "lockout policy" to lock a user out of the account after a specified number of failed sign-in attempts. For enhanced security
Q. what is permission boundary ?
  permisssion boundry we used to set maximum permission for managed policies.

Q.access analyzer
 it helps identify resourse
  validate iam policies
  generates iam policies.

Q.Identity providers (0)
Use an identity provider (IdP) to manage your user identities outside of AWS,
 but grant the user identities permissions to use AWS resources in your account.

